# How to Contribute

- If you're a programmer, I don't need to tell you what to do. This is a github repo, you can see what the code does. Make it do more. Make it do what it already does better. If you've got an idea, we're open to hearing it.
- If you're more of a biology enthusiast, please feel free to contribute to our species list or add useful commands.
- If you're a user or moderator of a subreddit and would like to use SpeciesBot, simply add yourself to the list. We will contact the moderators of each subreddit for explicit permission before approving such submissions.
- We also maintain a list of "reliable responders" who can usually be counted on to both reliably identify species within their specialties and educate the public in a respectable manner. SpeciesBot responds to such users no matter what subreddit they may currently be perusing. This takes both resources and time for the bot and creates potential spam issues if misused. To that end, reliable responders are currently screened using an individual, subjective approach. Efforts are underway to create more standardized criteria. You may request reliable responder status by editing your reddit username into the linked file or by asking one of the developers via reddit or discord. We may also contact users we believe to be worthy of the status.

All of the linked files may be edited by anyone with a free github account. To add a species or command, create a new file with a name in the format "Species genus.md" in the appropriate folder. To create a new command, create a new file with a file name in the format "command.md" in the appropriate folder - the comman will then be triggerable by typing "!command" in a patrolled subreddit.

Such edits will not take effect until a pull request is created by the user and accepted by one of the developers. For more information on this process, please see the Editing files and Adding a file to a repository sections of GitHub's documentation, paying special attention to the Editing files in another user's repository section. You can also just go to the appropriate file or folder and seek out an add/edit button - GitHub makes it pretty easy to follow the process. Fill out the appropriate fields, click the green buttons, when it says you have an open pull request, you're done. Check back later to see if your request is accepted, rejected, commented upon, or has suggested edits.
