East African Gaboon Vipers *Bitis gabonica* are medium-large (90-150cm, up to 175cm) true vipers that range from southeastern Togo east to far western Kenya, south into northern Angola and Central Zambia, from near sea level up to 2,300m.  Disjunct, remnant populations are also present in coastal Tanzania, west-central Mozambique, and along a thin coastal strip in extreme southern Mozambique and northern South Africa.  Preferred habitat includes forest edges and clearings, but they also utilize wooded savanna, coastal thickets, open woodland, and dense, closed-canopy forest.  They can also be common in agricultural areas, such as the perimeters of plantations.

East African Gaboon Vipers are a dangerously venomous species and should only be observed from a safe distance.  They are shy and unaggressive, typically relying on their camouflage to avoid predators.  When frightened, they often raise the forebody off the ground and hiss loudly to warn off the perceived aggressor.  Bites are rare, but should be treated as a serious medical emergency.  Attempting to kill or capture the snake dramatically increases the risk of being bitten.  **The best way to avoid being bitten is to leave the snake alone.**
  
Primarily nocturnal, *B. gabonica* are sluggish, ambush predators, but they also actively forage for prey.  Their main prey is rodents, but other small mammals, small birds, lizards, and frogs are also consumed.  They are primarily ground-dwellers, but some individuals will climb into bushes and low trees and they also swim well.

East African Gaboon Vipers are very heavy-bodied snakes, with large and distinct heads.  The dorsal scales are strongly keeled and arranged in 28-46 rows at midbody.  The head is covered by a large number of small, mostly keeled scales, and the eyes are positioned slightly dorsally.  There are usually 12-18 supralabials, which are separated from the eye by 4-5 rows of smaller scales.  The anal scale is single, but the subcaudals are divided.  The absence of prominent horn-like scales above each nostril, along with the presence of two dark, triangle shaped markings under the eye, helps differentiate them from the closely related West African Gaboon viper *B. rhinoceros.*

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/13300893/13300904)  |  [Alternative Range Map - © Rune Midtgaard](https://repfocus.dk/maps1/TAX/Serpentes/Viperidae/Bitis_gabonica_map.html) |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Bitis&species=gabonica)  |  [Additional Information](https://www.africansnakebiteinstitute.com/snake/african-snakes-gaboon-adder/)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange