Frade's Brown House Snakes *Boaedon fradei* are medium sized (50-70cm, up to 86cm), harmless lamprophiid snakes thus far recorded from eastern Angola, eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, extreme northeastern Botswana, and extreme northwestern Namibia, but is suspected to also range into Zambia, and possibly further, at elevations ranging from 1,050m to 1,375m above sea level.  Recorded habitat includes sandy Miombo woodland and Zambezian *Baikiaea* woodland.

Until recently, *B. fradei* were confused with the closely related Angolan House Snake *B. angolensis*, Striped House Snake *B. lineatus*, and Sooty House Snake *B. fuliginosus*, which range to the west, north, and north, respectively.  The true distributional limits of *B. fradei* and related species require further investigation.  Primarily nocturnal in habit, they are powerful constrictors and prey upon rodents and lizards, but probably also consume frogs and small birds, as do their close relatives.

Frade's Brown House Snakes have smooth, glossy dorsal scales arranged in 25-29 rows at midbody.  The head is shaped similarly to those of pythons; distinct at the neck and tapering toward the snout.  The eyes are moderately large and have vertical pupils.  There are usually 8 supralabials with 4th and 5th in contact with the eye, a moderately elongate loreal scale, 1-2 preoculars, and 1-2 postoculars.  The anal scale is single and the subcaudals are paired.

[Range Map - © Rune Midtgaard](https://repfocus.dk/maps1/TAX/Serpentes/Lamprophiidae/Boaedon_fradei_map.html)  |  [Relevant/Recent Phylogeography](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/342802476_A_review_of_the_Angolan_House_snakes_genus_Boaedon_Dumeril_Bibron_and_Dumeril_1854_Serpentes_Lamprophiidae_with_description_of_three_new_species_in_the_Boaedon_fuliginosus_Boie_1827_species_complex)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Boaedon&species=fradei)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange