Variegated House Snakes *Boaedon variegatus* are medium sized (50-70cm, up to 97cm), harmless lamprophiid snakes thus far recorded from the southern coast of Angola and north-central Namibia at elevations ranging from 11m to 1,602m above sea level.  It is suspected that their range might be more extensive than presently known.  Known habitat includes the semi-arid, desert-like environments that typify the Skeleton Coast.

Until recently, *B. variegatus* were confused with Striped House Snakes *B. lineatus* and Sooty House Snakes *B. fuliginosus*, closely related species which range to the north and west.  The true distributional limits of *B. variegatus* and related species require further investigation.  Primarily nocturnal in habit, they are powerful constrictors and, while the only recorded prey is a gecko in the stomach of a juvenile specimen, they likely feed on a wide variety of rodents, lizards, frogs, shrews, and occasionally other prey, similar to their close relatives.

Variegated House Snakes have smooth, glossy dorsal scales arranged in 27-30 rows at midbody.  The head is shaped similarly to those of pythons; distinct at the neck and tapering toward the snout.  The eyes are moderately large and have vertical pupils.  There are usually 8 supralabials with 3-5 in contact with the eye, an elongate loreal scale, 1 preocular, and 2 postoculars.  The anal scale is single and the subcaudals are paired.

[Range Map - © Rune Midtgaard](https://repfocus.dk/maps1/TAX/Serpentes/Lamprophiidae/Boaedon_variegatus_map.html)  |  [Relevant/Recent Phylogeography](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/342802476_A_review_of_the_Angolan_House_snakes_genus_Boaedon_Dumeril_Bibron_and_Dumeril_1854_Serpentes_Lamprophiidae_with_description_of_three_new_species_in_the_Boaedon_fuliginosus_Boie_1827_species_complex)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Boaedon&species=variegatus)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange