Radford's House Snakes *Boaedon radfordi* are medium sized (45-60cm, up to 80cm), harmless lamprophiid snakes that are presently known from northeastern Democratic Republic of the Congo at elevations between 640m and 2,362m.  They are only known from areas in or near forest, including lowland rainforest, transitional forest, montane forest, and in recently cleared forest, especially in agricultural areas.

Until recently, *B. radfordi* was confused with the similar Olive House Snake *B. olivaceus*.  Populations from neighboring Uganda and Burundi are still referred to *B. olivaceus*, but further study is needed to determine the identity of those populations.  Primarily nocturnal in habit, they are powerful constrictors.  They are believed to prey primarily on rodents and other small mammals, like the closely related *B. olivaceus*.

Radford's House Snakes have smooth, glossy dorsal scales arranged in 27-31 rows at midbody.  The head is slightly distinct at the neck, and the eyes are orange in color with vertical pupils.  There are 8-9 supralabials with the 4th and 5th in contact with the eye, an elongate loreal scale, usually 1 (1-2) preocular, and 2 postoculars.  The anal scale and the subcaudals are single.

[Range Map - © Rune Midtgaard](https://repfocus.dk/maps1/TAX/Serpentes/Lamprophiidae/Boaedon_radfordi_map.html)  |  [Relevant/Recent Phylogeography](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/273486636_A_phylogeny_of_Central_African_Boaedon_Serpentes_Lamprophiidae_with_the_description_of_a_new_cryptic_species_from_the_Albertine_Rift)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Boaedon&species=radfordi)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange