Spotted Night Adders *Causus maculatus* are small-medium (30-60cm, up to 70cm) true vipers that range from western Mauritania east into western Ethiopia, south into northern Angola, from near sea level up to 1,800m.  They primarily inhabit savanna, forest, and semi-desert, especially near water.  Despite the common name, they can be active day or night.  Their main prey is toads and other frogs.

*Causus* night adders generally aren't considered a deadly animal, but are nonetheless dangerously venomous and should only be observed from a distance.  When frightened, individuals might flatten or inflate the body, hiss loudly, and/or strike toward the perceived aggressor.  Attempting to kill or capture the snake dramatically increases the risk of being bitten.  **The best way to avoid being bitten is to leave the snake alone.**
  
Spotted Night Adders are moderately stout in build, with relatively short, slightly distinct or indistinct heads.  The dorsal scales are smooth or weakly keeled and usually arranged in 19 rows at midbody.  Unlike most other viperids, the top of the head is covered with large, plate-like scales.  There are usually 6 (6-7) supralabials, which are separated from the eye by 1-2 subocular scales.  There is also a loreal scale, 2-3 preoculars, and 1-2 postoculars.  The anal scale is single, but the subcaudals are divided.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/13300953/13300964)  |  [Alternative Range Map - © Rune Midtgaard](https://repfocus.dk/maps1/TAX/Serpentes/Viperidae/Causus_maculatus_map.html)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Causus&species=maculatus)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange