Scarlet Snakes *Cemophora coccinea*  and *Cemophora lineri* are small (36-51 cm, record 82.8 cm), harmless colubrid snakes native to the southeastern United States.  They are shy, fossorial snakes frequently found under logs, rocks, and debris in sandy, forested habitats.  Scarlet Snakes feed on reptile eggs, lizards, other snakes, and small mammals.
 
Scarlet Snakes are white, gray, or yellow, with black bordered, red blotches that extend nearly to the belly, sometimes appearing banded from above. Often confused with harmless Scarlet Kingsnakes *Lampropeltis elapsoides* or venomous Coral Snakes *Micrurus sp.*, they can be distinguished from these snakes by the presence of blotches that do not extend onto the belly that form white "saddles". Scarlet Kingsnakes and Eastern Coral Snakes have bands that extend all the way around the body. Use the !keels command for more information about snake color patterns and scale architecture. 
 
Scarlet Snakes are currently recognized as distinct from Texas Scarlet Snakes *Cemophora lineri* and can be differentiated based on range, but in terms of morphology, "*Cemophora lineri* differs from *C. coccinea* in having a greater average number of ventral scales (*C. lineri*: 178– 195 [X = 186.1]; *C. coccinea*: 150–185 [X = 167.5]) and black dorsal bands that extend to the third, fourth, or fifth dorsal scale row (vs. extending laterally to dorsal scale row one or two in *C. coccinea*)".
 
[Range Map](https://imgur.com/Q0O2Olu) | [Recent Phylogeography](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/312283459_Refugia_and_Speciation_in_North_American_Scarlet_Snakes_Cemophora)

*This short account was prepared by /u/shrike1978 and edited by /u/Phylogenizer*.