Southern Smooth Snakes *Coronella girondica* are small-medium (45-65cm, up to 95cm), harmless colubrid snakes ranging through southern Europe and northern Africa; from central Italy north to southern France, east to the Atlantic coast of Spain, south to central Morocco and the Mediterranean coasts of Algeria and Tunisia.  A disjunct population also exists in northeast Italy.  They typically occur at elevations below 900m, but as high as 1,600m in the Pyrenees and 2,900m in Morocco.

*Coronella girondica* primarily occupy dry, brushy and/or rocky areas with sandy soils, including scrubland, forest clearings, and forest edges, and often occupy disturbed habitat near human habitation such as rock quarries, old ruins, stone walls, and agricultural areas.  They are crepuscular or diurnal, but sometimes active on overcast or rainy days.  Prey is mainly lizards, but snakes and rodents are often consumed.  

Southern Smooth Snakes have smooth dorsal scales arranged in 21 rows at midbody.  The eyes are proportionally small, and the head is indistinct at the neck. There are usually 8 supralabials, the 4th and 5th in contact with the eye, and the rostral scale is moderate in size .  The anal scale is divided. A closely related species, the smooth snake *C. austriaca*, overlaps in range from central Italy west into Iberia.  In these areas, *C. austriaca* usually occupies higher elevations, but can be further differentiated from *C. girondica* by usually having 19 dorsal scale rows at midbody, 7 supralabials with the 3rd and 4th in contact with the eye, and by having a larger and more triangular rostral scale which is lodged between the internasals. 

The superficially similar False Smooth Snakes *Macroprotodon* spp. also overlap in range from Iberia to northern Africa.  *Macroprotodon* spp. can be differentiated from *C. girondica* by having more dorsally positioned eyes, having a blade shaped 6th supralabial that is usually enlarged and nearly contacts the parietal scale, and by having a broader snout.  Additionally, *C. girondica* often has a small, dark bar under the eye between the 4th and 5th supralabials, as well as a dark bar on top of the head from one eye to another; *C. austriaca* lack the former marking (and usually also the latter), while false smooth snakes, *Macroprotodon* spp., usually lack the latter (and often the former).

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/61491/86249650)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Coronella&species=girondica)

