Smooth Snakes *Coronella austriaca* are small-medium (40-70cm, up to 92cm) harmless colubrid snakes found in Europe and western Asia; from southern Norway east to the southern Urals in Russia in the north, and from northern Portugal east into north-central Iran in the south. Disjunct populations also exist in southern Great Britain, central and southern Spain, Elba, northern Sicily, south-central Turkey, and on the Åland Archipelago.  They are found from sea level to nearly 2,800m in the southern part of their range.

*Coronella austriaca* primarily occupy dry, brushy areas with rocky or sandy soils, including scrubland, hillsides, and forest edges, and often occupy disturbed habitat near human habitation such as rock quarries, old ruins, stone walls and gardens.  They are usually more common at higher elevations in the southern part of its range.  They are diurnal, but cryptic and rarely observed out in the open.  Prey is mainly lizards, but snakes and rodents are often consumed.  

*Coronella austriaca* have smooth dorsal scales arranged in 19 rows at midbody.  The eyes are proportionally small, and the head is indistinct at the neck. There are usually 7 supralabials, the 3rd and 4th in contact with the eye, and the rostral scale is large, triangular in shape, and lodged between the anterior portion of the internasals.  The anal scale is divided.

A closely related species, the Southern Smooth Snake *C. girondica*, overlaps in range from central and northeastern Italy west into Iberia.  *C. austriaca* has a stripe running from the neck through the eye to the nostril; in *C. girondica*, the stripe only runs from the neck to the eye.  *C. girondica* can be further differentiated from *C. austriaca* by usually occuring at lower elevations (usually below 900m, but to 1600m in the Pyrenees, and to nearly 2500m in the Sierra Nevada), usually having 21 dorsal scale rows at midbody, 8 supralabials with the 4th and 5th in contact with the eye, and a smaller rostral scale which isn't jammed between the internasals.  The False Smooth Snake *Macroprotodon brevis* overlaps in range only in parts of Iberia, and can likewise be differentiated from *C. austriaca* by having 8 supralabials with the 4th and 5th contacting the eye, an enlarged and blade shaped 6th supralabial which nearly contacts the parietal scale, a wide but short rostral that does not lodge between the internasals and by having more dorsally positioned eyes.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/157284/748852)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Coronella&species=austriaca)