Caspian Whipsnakes *Dolichophis caspius* are large (140-170cm, up to 250cm), harmless colubrid snakes found in Eastern Europe and Western Asia, from central Hungary east to extreme western Kazakhstan, south into Greece, Turkey, and extreme northeastern Azerbaijan, from sea level to 1,600m.  They also occur on many islands in the eastern Mediterranean Sea; island populations generally attain much smaller sizes.

*D. caspius* are most common in dry, open areas, such as rocky hillsides, steppe, and scrub, and forest edges, but can sometimes be found in moist and/or well forested areas.  They can be common in and around areas of human habitation, where they inhabit rock walls, old ruins, parks, and gardens.  Usually diurnal in habit, they are swift-moving, active, and hunt largely by sight.  They feed opportunistically upon a variety of prey, including rodents, lizards, other snakes (including vipers), and small birds.  They rely on their speed to escape predators, such as humans, but when seized will readily bite.  Nonetheless, their bites are not dangerous and can be easily disinfected with hand sanitizer, or washing with mild soap and water.

Caspian Whipsnakes have smooth dorsal scales arranged in 19 rows at midbody.  The eyes are large.  There are usually 8 supralabials, with the 4th and 5th in contact with the eye, one loreal scale positioned between a postnasal scale and one large preocular, a small presubocular sandwiched in between the anterior part of the eye and supralabials 3 & 4, and 2 (occasionally 3) postoculars.  The anal scale is divided.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/157267/746211)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Dolichophis&species=caspius)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange