Extatosoma tiaratum, commonly known as the spiny leaf insect, giant prickly stick insect, Macleay's spectre, or the Australian walking stick, is a large species of stick insect endemic to Australia. It is native to Queensland and New South Wales, but has been found as far away as New Guinea.

This species displays strong sexual dimorphism. Females have a large, heavy body covered in thorn-like spikes, are leaf-like in overall appearance, and grow up to 20cm (7.8in) in length. Males are much smaller and thinner, reaching at most 11mm (0.4in) in length and having a thinner, lighter body that is more stick-like in appearance. Males also have long wings and are excellent flyers, while females have tiny non-functional wings and are typically incapable of flight.

E. tiaratum makes excellent use of camouflage at all stages of life. As nymphs they have a black body, red head, and curl their tails into a ball which gives them the appearance of a red-headed ant. This is useful as their eggs are frequently carried into anthills by red-headed spider ants and is also a form of aposematic mimicry. As adults, a more leaf-like appearance is taken on, and adults of the species will often sway in a leaf-like manner in response to wind or disturbance. Adults may also adopt a threat pose when frightened in which the forelegs are raised off of the ground and the tail is curled above the body, mimicking the appearance of a scorpion. They may also emit a strong-smelling fluid from their thorax, which deters most predators, but is harmless to humans and which some say smells pleasantly of toffee or marshamallows.

E. tiaratum typically reproduce sexually, producing eggs which hatch after approximately 4 months. They are, however, capable of parthenogenesis and females will readily lay eggs without the presence of a male. These eggs take about twice as long to hatch and will produce female clones of the mother. Breeding is prolific, with each female producing hundreds of eggs. Females live for approximately 18 months, males 6-8.

Spectres are herbivores, and their food of choice is Eucalyptus leaves, although breeders abroad have fed a wide variety of plant matter with great success. Known-good food items include bayberry, bramble, hawthorn, hazel, oak, photinia, raspberry, rose, salmon berry, and guava.

This species is commonly kept by hobbyists, schools, and researchers, and eggs can be obtained quite readily from a number of sources. Keeping phasmids is, however, outlawed or banned in many jurisdictions and you should always check the appropriate laws before attempting to purchase, import, or export them.