Coin-marked Snakes *Hemorrhois nummifer* are medium-large (100-110cm, up to 160cm), harmless colubrid snakes that range from the northwestern coast of Turkey east to south-central Kazakhstan, far western Kyrgyzstan, south to central Tajikistan, central Iran, and northeastern Egypt, with a disjunct population in southeastern Kazakhstan.  Also present on Crete and some other islands in the eastern Mediterranean.  Found from sea level to 1,000m, but usually below 900m.

*H. nummifer* inhabit arid, rocky areas, especially brushy or scrubby slopes, but will also utilize disturbed areas such as gardens, stone walls, and agricultural areas.  They are largely diurnal, but will switch to crepuscular or nocturnal activity during the heat of the summer months. They prey primarily on lizards, small mammals, and small birds. 

Coin-marked Snakes are slow moving, and when disturbed or threatened, often flatten the head to appear larger and hiss loudly.  This habit, along with a somewhat similar dorsal pattern, sometimes leads to confusion with the venomous blunt-nosed viper *Macrovipera lebetinus*.  However, *M. lebetinus* has a heavier build, a larger head with proportionally smaller eyes, and a strikingly different arrangement of scales on the head including; 1. [many small, keeled scales on top of the head](https://snakeevolution.org/images/MlebHnumpar.png), 2. [2 or usually 3 rows of small subocular scales separating the eye from the upper lip scales](https://snakeevolution.org/images/MlebHnumsuplab.png), and 3. [a fragmented supraocular which forms a ring around the eye with other small, circumorbital scales](https://snakeevolution.org/images/MlebHnumocular.png).

*H. nummifer* have weakly keeled dorsal scales arranged in 23-25 rows at midbody.  The head is moderately large; the eyes are slightly large in juvenile, and moderate to somewhat small in large adults.  There are usually 9 supralabials with the 5th and 6th in contact with the eye, 2 preoculars with a presubocular underneath, and usually 2 postoculars (occasionally 3, rarely 4).  The closely related and similar *H. ravergieri* can be distinguished by having 21 dorsal scale rows at midbody.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/157270/746934)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Hemorrhois&species=nummifer)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange