Balkan Whipsnakes *Hierophis gemonensis* are medium (60-90cm, up to 130cm), harmless colubrid snakes that range along the Mediterranean coastline of southeastern Europe, from extreme northeastern Italy (near Trieste) west to south-central Slovenia, south into southern Greece, the island of Crete, and many smaller islands in between, from sea level up to 1,400m.  They utilize a variety of dry, open areas, including scrubland, rocky hillsides, and fields, and can be common in and around areas of human habitation, where they inhabit gardens, pastures, and agricultural areas.  

*Hierophis gemonensis* are largely diurnal.  They are active, swift moving, vision oriented hunters and feed opportunistically upon a variety of prey, mainly lizards and rodents, but other small mammals, snakes, and insects are also taken.  They utilize their speed to evade predators, including humans, but can bite vigorously when seized.  Nonetheless, their bites are not dangerous and can be easily disinfected by washing the site with gentle soap and warm water (alternatively, hand sanitizer is also effective).

*Hierophis gemonensis* have smooth dorsal scales arranged in 19 rows at midbody.  The eyes are large and there is one loreal scale positioned between a postnasal scale and one large preocular, with a small presubocular sandwiched in between the anterior part of the eye and supralabials 3 & 4.  The anal scale is divided.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/61510/12496555)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Hierophis&species=gemonensis)