Western False Smooth Snakes *Macroprotodon brevis* are small-medium (40-50cm, up to 65cm), mildly venomous, rear-fanged colubrid snakes that range from central Spain and Portugal south to northwestern Algeria and northern and western Morocco, with an isolated population in southern Algeria, from sea level up to 1,500m.  They principally inhabit dry areas with sandy or rocky soils, including scrubland, semi-desert steppe, dune systems, slopes, and open forest.  They can be common in disturbed areas, where they utilize stone walls, old ruins, and cultivated groves.

*M. brevis* are slow moving and mostly nocturnal or crepuscular in habit.  When threatened, they often conceal the head within coils for protection, emit a foul smelling musk, and occasionally strike or mock strike.  They prey primarily on lizards and amphisbaenians, which are subdued by a mild venom.  Small mammals and snakes are also taken.  The venom requires a generous amount of chewing to introduce and is considered insignificant to humans.  Prolonged, chewing bites should be avoided as a precaution.  

*M. brevis* have smooth dorsal scales arranged in 19-23 rows at midbody, varying regionally.  The eyes are positioned somewhat dorsally, imparting a rather "derpy" or "googly-eyed" appearance.  The rostral scale is much wider than it is high (approximately 3-5 times).  There are usually 8 supralabials with the 6th being enlarged and blade-like in shape, and extending high on the face, sometimes even touching the parietal.  There is also a loreal scale, a preocular, and usually 2 preoculars.  The anal scale is usually divided.

*M. brevis* are often confused with *Coronella* smooth snakes, but these can be differentiated by having more laterally positioned eyes, rostral scales approximately 1-2 times wider than tall, and by lacking any enlarged or blade-shaped posterior supralabials.  The entire *Macroprotodon* genus is in need of revision, and the relationships between individual species and populations are poorly resolved.

[Range Map - © Rune Midtgaard](https://repfocus.dk/maps1/TAX/Serpentes/Colubridae/Macroprotodon_brevis_map.html)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Macroprotodon&species=brevis)  |  [Additional Information](http://www.moroccoherps.com/en/ficha/macroprotodon_brevis/)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange