Eastern Montpellier Snakes *Malpolon insignitus* are large (90-150cm, record 182cm) psammophiid snakes that range across eastern Mediterranean Europe, northern Africa, and Western Asia, with a strongly Mediterranean distribution (see range map for details), from sea level to 1,400m.  They utilize a variety of dry, open habitat, including Mediterranean scrub, brushy steppe, rocky hillsides, and semi-desert, and sometimes inhabit disturbed areas such as rock walls, hedgerows, and agricultural areas.

*M. insignitus* are mildly venomous, rear-fanged snakes.  They are generally considered harmless but prolonged, chewing bites should be avoided.  They are extraordinarily wary, difficult to approach, and **bites rarely occur unless a snake is intentionally pursued and harassed**.  This active, swift moving, and diurnal species feeds opportunistically upon a wide variety of prey, which they hunt visually.  Favored prey are lizards, other snakes, rodents, and small birds.  Bird eggs, rabbits, amphibians, and insects are also taken when available.

*Malpolon insignitus* are sexually dimorphic, with males attaining greater size.  The dorsal scales are smooth and arranged in 17-19 rows at midbody.  Longitudinal grooves down the middle of the scales might impart the impression of keels from a distance.  There are two loreal scales, positioned between the single preocular and a single, semi-divided nasal scale.  The anal scale is divided.  The eyes are large and a prominent ridge, which runs from above the eye toward the snout, forms a "brow" which makes them appear superficially grumpy.  Just below the "brow", a shallow, longitudinal groove runs from the eye to the snout, increasing their range of binocular vision.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/157253/744783)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Malpolon&species=insignitus)  |  [Additional Information](http://www.moroccoherps.com/en/ficha/malpolon_insignitus/)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange