Montpellier Snakes *Malpolon monspessulanus* are large (100-170cm, record 255cm) psammophiid snakes that range across Mediterranean Europe and Africa, from the extreme western coast of Italy west into Portugal and Spain, and from extreme northeast Tunisia west to the central coastline of Western Sahara, from sea level to 2,400m.  They utilize a variety of open habitat, including scrub, coastal dunes, grassland, marshes, farmland, forest clearings, and is often common in and around areas of human habitation, where they inhabit rock walls, parks, gardens, outbuildings, and old ruins.

*Malpolon monspessulanus* are mildly venomous, rear-fanged snakes.  Prolonged, chewing bites should be avoided as a precaution.  Envenomation is uncommon and usually mild (e.g. local pain, swelling, etc.), but on rare occasions, systemic symptoms have been reported.  They are extraordinarily wary, difficult to approach, and **bites rarely occur unless a snake is intentionally pursued and harassed**. This active, swift moving, and diurnal species feeds opportunistically upon a wide variety of prey, which they hunt visually.  The most common prey items are lizards, other snakes, rodents, and small birds.  Bird eggs, rabbits, amphibians, and insects are also taken when available.

Montpellier Snakes are sexually dimorphic, with males attaining much greater size.  The dorsal scales are smooth and arranged in 19 rows at midbody.  Longitudinal grooves down the middle of the scales might impart the impression of keels from a distance.  There are two loreal scales, positioned between the single preocular and a single, semi-divided nasal scale.  The anal scale is divided.  The eyes are large and a prominent ridge, which runs from above the eye toward the snout, forms a "brow" which makes them appear superficially grumpy.  Just below the "brow", a shallow, longitudinal groove runs from the eye to the snout, increasing their range of binocular vision.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/157262/5064442)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Malpolon&species=monspessulanus)  |  [Additional Information](http://www.moroccoherps.com/en/ficha/Malpolon_monspessulanus/)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange