Red Spitting Cobras *Naja pallida* are medium-large (70-120cm, up to 150cm) elapids that range from Djibouti and Somalia southwest into eastern South Sudan, south into northern Tanzania, from near sea level up to 1,200m above sea level.  They primarily inhabit arid savanna and semi-desert.  They are mainly nocturnal, but can be active during the day.  Their primary prey is frogs, but rodents, lizards, snakes, and small birds are also consumed.

Dangerously venomous, *N. pallida* should only be observed from a safe distance.   When frightened, they often raise the forebody off the ground, spread the neck into a long, narrow hood, and hiss loudly.  They are also capable of "spitting" their venom, and can aim accurately up to 3m away.  If it gets in the eyes, care must be taken to gently flush them out with water or other inert liquid as soon as possible to prevent permanent damage, and medical care should be sought.  They are capable of biting and/or ejecting venom without first spreading a hood.  Attempting to kill or capture the snake dramatically increases the risk of being bitten.  **The best way to avoid being bitten is to leave the snake alone.**
  
Somewhat slender to moderate in build, *N. pallida* have a somewhat small head with relatively large eyes and a blunt snout.  The dorsal scales are smooth and arranged in 21-29 rows at the neck and usually 25 (21-27) rows at midbody.  There are 6-7 supralabials with 3rd or 3-4 in contact with the eye, 1-2 preoculars, and usually 3 (2-4) postoculars.  No subocular scale is usually present.  The anal scale is single and the subcaudals are divided.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/20878782/20878789)  |  [Alternative Range Map - © Rune Midtgaard](https://repfocus.dk/maps1/TAX/Serpentes/Elapidae_1/Naja_pallida_map.html)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Naja&species=pallida)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange