Black-Necked Spitting Cobras *Naja nigricollis* are large (120-150cm, up to 230cm) elapids that range from southwestern Mauritania east into Ethiopia, south to southeastern Tanzania, extreme northwestern Mozambique, and southern Angola, from sea level up to 2,500m above sea level.  They primarily inhabit arid and mesic savanna, woodland, and recently cleared areas.  They are sometimes common in areas of human habitation.  Active day or night, they are generalist predators of small mammals, snakes, lizards, amphibians, birds, and bird eggs.

Dangerously venomous, *N. nigricollis* should only be observed from a safe distance.  When frightened, they often raise the forebody off the ground and spread the neck into a broad hood.  They are also capable of "spitting" their venom, and can aim accurately up to 3m away.  If it gets in the eyes, care must be taken to gently flush them out with water or other inert liquid as soon as possible to prevent permanent damage, and medical care should be sought.  They are capable of biting and/or ejecting venom without first spreading a hood.  Attempting to kill or capture the snake dramatically increases the risk of being bitten.  **The best way to avoid being bitten is to leave the snake alone.**
  
Black-Necked Spitting Cobras are moderately stout in build.  The head is short but chunky, with small or moderately sized eyes, and a blunt snout.  The dorsal scales are smooth and arranged in 17-23 rows at the neck and usually in 21 (17-23) rows at midbody.  There are usually 6 (6-8) supralabials with the 3rd in contact with the eye, usually 2 (1-2) preoculars, and 2-3 postoculars.  The subocular scale is absent.  The anal scale is single and the subcaudals are divided.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/13265913/13265918)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Naja&species=nigricollis)  |  [Additional Information](https://www.africansnakebiteinstitute.com/snake/african-snakes-black-necked-spitting-cobra/)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange