Mozambique Spitting Cobras *Naja mossambica* are medium-large (80-130cm, up to 162cm) elapids that range from eastern and southern Tanzania south to the eastern coast of South Africa, and west into southwestern Angola, from near sea level up to 1,800m above sea level.  They utilize a wide variety of habitat, including moist savanna, coastal thicket, lowland forest, scrub, and semi-desert.  They are often common around areas of human habitation, even in urban zones.  They are mainly nocturnal, but often active during the day.  Their primary prey is toads and other frogs, but rodents, lizards, and snakes are frequently consumed as well.

Dangerously venomous, *N. mossambica* should only be observed from a safe distance.  They are often quick to react to a perceived threat, but also quick to retreat when left alone.  When frightened, they often raise the forebody off the ground and spread the neck into a broad hood.  They are also capable of "spitting" their venom, and can aim accurately up to 3m away.  If it gets in the eyes, care must be taken to gently flush them out with water or other inert liquid as soon as possible to prevent permanent damage, and medical care should be sought.  They are capable of biting and/or ejecting venom without first spreading a hood.  Attempting to kill or capture the snake dramatically increases the risk of being bitten.  **The best way to avoid being bitten is to leave the snake alone.**
  
Mozambique Spitting Cobras are moderately stout in build, with a medium sized head, moderately sized eyes, and a blunt snout.  The dorsal scales are smooth and usually arranged in 23-25 (21-27) rows at midbody.  There are 6-7 supralabials with the 3rd in contact with the eye, usually 2 preoculars, and usually 3 postoculars.  The anal scale is single and the subcaudals are divided.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/20878771/20878776)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Naja&species=mossambica)  |  [Additional Information](https://www.africansnakebiteinstitute.com/snake/mozambique-spitting-cobra/)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange