Dice Snakes *Natrix tessellata* are medium sized (45-80cm, up to 130cm) Old World natricine snakes that range from northwestern Italy north and east into the Czech Republic, through Eastern Europe into northwestern China, south into northern Pakistan, southern Iran, northeastern Egypt, the Balkans, and southern Italy, and on some islands in the eastern Mediterranean, including Crete, from sea level to over 2,200m.  Several small, disjunct populations also exist in Switzerland, Germany, and northern Kazakhstan.

*N. tessellata* are semi-aquatic in habit, and rarely stray far from well-vegetated, aquatic surroundings, including ponds, lakes, sluggish rivers and streams, and will also utilize seashores.  They are active day and night, but are more nocturnal during the hotter months. They prey mostly on fish, but amphibians and amphibian larvae are also taken.  They often bask in branches overhanging water, and abruptly drop into the water when they sense danger.  They are not aggressive and rarely bite, but when threatened they might flatten the head and/or body to appear larger, mock strikes with the mouth closed, release a foul smelling musk from the vent, or play dead when they feel threatened.

*N. tessellata* have keeled scales, usually arranged in 19 rows at midbody.  The eyes are positioned somewhat dorsally.  They usually have 8 supralabials with the 4th and usually 5th in contact with the eye, usually 2 (2-3) preoculars, and usually 3 (3-5) postoculars.  The anal scale is divided.  They are often confused with closely related species; *N. natrix* and *N. helvetica* can be differentiated by having having more laterally positioned eyes and usually only 7 supralabial scales.  *N. maura* can be differentiated by usually having 7 supralabials, usually 21 dorsal scale rows at midbody, usually 1-2 preoculars, and usually 2 postoculars. 

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/157256/745071)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Natrix&species=tessellata)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange