Diadem Snakes *Spalerosophis diadema* are medium-large (120-140cm, up to 200cm), harmless colubrid snakes with an extensive range in northern Africa, Western Asia, Central Asia, and into South Asia, from the Atlantic Coasts of Morocco, Mauritania, and Senegal north and east into south-central Kazakhstan and northern India (see range map for details), from sea level up to 2,000m.  They inhabit arid and semi-arid areas with sandy and/or rocky soils, including desert flats, semi-desert grassland, coastal dune systems, wadis, oases, and alongside agricultural zones.

*S. diadema* are largely diurnal, but will switch to crepuscular or nocturnal activity during the heat of the summer months.  They are active and swift moving snakes, and their prey consists of rodents and other small mammals, lizards, small birds, and snakes.  They utilize their speed to evade predators, including humans, but can bite when seized.  Nonetheless, their bites are not dangerous and can be easily disinfected by washing the site with gentle soap and warm water (alternatively, hand sanitizer is also effective).

*S. diadema* have weakly keeled dorsal scales arranged in 25-33 rows at midbody.  The head is fairly large; the eyes are large and positioned slightly dorsally.  The scales on the face are small, fragmented, and numerous, with 10-14 supralabials, 2-6 loreal scales, 2-4 preoculars, 3-5 postoculars, and a full row of subocular scales that completely separate the supralabials from the eye. The anal scale is single.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/164593/1059945)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Spalerosophis&species=diadema)