Trachema scripta elegans, commonly known as the red-eared slider, is a subspecies of Trachema scripta, the pond slider. It is a semi-aquatic turtle belonging to the family Emydidae and is the most popular pet turtle species in the U.S. It is also popular as a pet across the world and is widely regarded as the single most invasive turtle species.

The carapace of the species can reach up to 40cm (16in) in length, with females being larger than males. They typically live for 20-30 years, with some rare individuals reaching ages above 40. They typically have shorter lifespans in captivity, as their health and wellbeing are very dependant on the quality of their living environment, and the enclosures, food, and treatment often provided to captive sliders is sub-par.

Turtles are very demanding pets, large turtles like the RES moreso. Common guidelines suggest 10 gallons of water per inch of shell length, which means housing an adult slider may require 150+ gallons of water along with the necessary equipment to maintain water quality. They also require a meaningful amount of dry land area for basking and exploration, and females will need to be provided adequate nesting areas from time to time, as they may become gravid and lay (infertile) eggs without sexual activity. Sliders should not typically cohabitate with other turtles, not even of their own species. Sliders in the wild are solitary animals, only seeking out other sliders during mating season. Turtles housed together may become territorial and represent a danger to one another.

Red-eared sliders are commonly sold as babies, which can be just a few inches across and as such have dramatically reduced care requirements. Those buying such pets are frequently not aware of or prepared for the difficulty, expense, or longevity of the adult turtles they will become and so a great many turtles are released into the wild each year. This, combined with escapees and breeding by invasive populations has made the red-eared slider a prime example of invasive species and the damage they can do to native wildlife and ecosystems. 

Native to the Mississippi river, Gulf of Mexico, and much of the southeastern United States, sliders can be found anywhere there is calm water, abundant aquatic plant life, and somewhere to bury their eggs. This unfortunately now includes non-native locales such as Bermuda, Canada, Australia, Europe, Great Britain, South Africa, the Caribbean isands, Israel, Bahrain, the Mariana islands, Guam, as well as southern and eastern Asia.

Because of their extreme invasive nature, red-eared sliders are outlawed or banned in many jurisdictions. Always consult the appropriate laws before importing, exporting, or purchasing such an animal, and never release any captive animal into the wild.