European Adders *Vipera berus* are medium sized (50-70cm, up to 104cm) true vipers with a broad Eurasian range, from Great Britain east to the Russian Pacific Island of Sakhalin, south into central France, southeastern Europe, eastern Kazakhstan, northern Mongolia, northern China, and northern North Korea. Boreal in distribution, they can even be found above the Artic Circle in Fennoscandia, from sea level to 3,000m.  Southern populations are generally restricted to higher altitudes.  Some populations are considered separate species of varying validity by certain authors; see Recent/Relevant Phylogeography link for additional details.

*V. berus* are a dangerously venomous species and should only be observed from a safe distance.  They are not aggressive and only bite when they feel they are in danger.  Bites most commonly occur when a human attempts to kill, capture, or otherwise intentionally handle the snake.  **The best way to avoid being bitten is to leave the snake alone.**

European Adders occupy a wide variety of typically moist habitat, including meadows, marshland, bogs, heath and moorland, field edges, forest edges and clearings, open woodland, and are sometimes common in areas near human habitation, where they inhabit quarries, hedgerows, and pastures.  They are primarily diurnal, but may become crepuscular during the hot weather. They prey largely on small mammals, but lizards, frogs, and small birds are occasionally taken.

*V. berus* have keeled scales, usually arranged in 21 rows at midbody.  The supraocular scale juts slightly over the eye like a brow, giving the animal a stern or "grumpy" appearance.  They usually have 9 supralabials, with a single row of small subocular scales separating them from the eye.  There are usually 2 apical scales in contact with the rostral scale.  There are distinct parietal and frontal scales, but they are reduced in size and surrounded by numerous smaller scales compared to most harmless snakes across its range.  The anal scale is undivided.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/47756146/743903)  |  [Relevant/Recent Phylogeography](https://brill.com/view/journals/amre/41/3/article-p285_1.xml?language=en)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Vipera&species=berus)  |  [Additional Information](https://animaldiversity.org/accounts/Vipera_berus/)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange