Asp Vipers *Vipera aspis* are medium sized (50-70cm, up to 94cm) true vipers native to Southern Europe, from northwestern France east to extreme western Slovenia, south into north-central Spain and southern Italy, including Sicily, from sea level to 3,300m.  Principally found in dry, rocky areas, including Mediterranean scrub, slopes, meadows, open forest, and disturbed areas around stone walls, hedgerows, and quarries, while avoiding thickly settled and urban zones.  They will also occupy wetter habitat, such as bogs and moist, grassy areas, where the related European adder, *V. berus*, is absent.  They prey primarily on rodents and other small mammals, though lizards are also taken.

*V. aspis* are a dangerously venomous species and should only be observed from a safe distance.  They are not aggressive and only bite when they feel they are in danger.  Bites most commonly occur when a human attempts to kill, capture, or otherwise intentionally handle the snake.  **The best way to avoid being bitten is to leave the snake alone.**

Asp Vipers have keeled dorsal scales arranged in 21 (occasionally 23) rows at midbody.  The supraocular scale is large and juts slightly over the eye like a brow, giving the animal a stern or "grumpy" appearance.  They have a slightly upturned snout, which forms a ridge with the adjacent scales, giving the front of the head a flat or slightly convex look when viewed from directly above.  The parietals and frontals are fragmented, partially or wholly replaced by smaller, more numerous scales.

*V. aspis* is sometimes confused with other vipers that overlap in range.  *V. ammodytes* and most *V. latastei* can easily be distinguished by the presence of a horn-like snout.  Other sympatric *Vipera* spp. have distinct parietal and frontal plates, and have more rounded snouts.  They are also commonly confused with the harmless viperine water snake *Natrix maura* but this species has 1. [large and distinct parietal, frontal, prefrontal, and internasal scales on top of the head](https://snakeevolution.org/images/Vparietals.png), 2. [a smaller supraocular scale that does not form a "brow" over the eye (imparting a "derpy" appearance)](https://snakeevolution.org/images/Vsupraoc.png), and 3. [lacks an upturned snout](https://snakeevolution.org/images/Vsnout.png). 

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/61591/12503170)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Vipera&species=aspis)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange