Aesculapian Snakes *Zamenis longissimus* are large (120-150cm, up to 225cm), harmless colubrid snakes that range in Europe and western Asia; from northwestern France east to central Ukraine, south to north-central Spain and northeastern Iran, from sea level to 1,700m.  The range is fragmented, especially toward the east and north.  

*Zamenis longissimus* are primarily associated with woodland, including riparian forest, forest clearings, and open woodland, but also inhabit scrub, marsh, and well vegetated slopes.  They are sometimes common around areas of human habitation, where they occupy rock walls, hedgerows, agricultural areas, and old ruins.  Mainly diurnal in habit, but during the hotter months might become crepuscular or limit activity to cloudy or rainy weather.  Prey is mainly rodents, but bats and other small mammals, small birds, bird eggs, and lizards are sometimes taken.

*Zamenis longissimus* have smooth dorsal scales arranged in 23 rows at midbody.  The head is proportionally narrow and elongate, and the eyes are moderate in size.  There are usually 8 supralabials (sometimes 9), and there is one preocular, and two postoculars (upper larger).  The anal scale is divided. 

A closely related species, the Italian Aesculapian snake *Z. lineatus* overlaps in range in west-central Italy.  Where they overlap, *Z. lineatus* can be differentiated by it's red iris (the iris is a duller brown, grey, or yellow in *Z. longissimus*), a lighter dorsal coloration, and by usually having thinner, better defined, dark longitudinal stripes.  Other species with which it might be confused include the four-lined snake *Elaphe quatuorlineata*, which can be differentiated by having a more robust physique and keeled scales arranged in 25 rows, and the ladder snake *Z. scalaris*, which can be differentiated by having a more robust build, a pointed snout with enlarged rostral scale, and by having their dorsal scales arranged in 27 rows at midbody.

[Range Map](https://www.iucnredlist.org/species/157266/49063773)  |  [Relevant/Recent Phylogeography](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/314066138_Diversity_and_distribution_of_the_Italian_Aesculapian_snake_Zamenis_lineatus_A_phylogeographic_assessment_with_implications_for_conservation)  |  [Reptile Database Account](https://reptile-database.reptarium.cz/species?genus=Zamenis&species=longissimus)

This short account was written by /u/fairlyorange