Please leave wild animals in the wild. This includes not purchasing common species collected from the wild and sold cheaply in pet stores or through online retailers, like *Thamnophis* Ribbon and Gartersnakes, *Opheodrys* Greensnakes, *Xenopeltis* Sunbeam Snakes and *Dasypeltis* Egg-Eating Snakes. Brownsnakes *Storeria* found around the home do okay in urban environments and don't need 'rescue'; the species typically fails to thrive in captivity and should be left in the wild. Reptiles are kept as pets or specimens by many people but captive bred animals have much better chances of survival, as they are free from parasite loads, didn't endure the stress of collection and shipment, and tend to be species that do better in captivity. Taking an animal out of the wild is not ecologically different than killing it, and most states protect non-game native species - meaning collecting it probably broke the law.  Source captive bred pets and be wary of people selling offspring dropped by stressed wild-caught females collected near full term as 'captive bred'.

High-throughput reptile traders are collecting snakes from places like Florida with lax wildlife laws with little regard to the status of fungal or other infections, spreading them into the pet trade. In the other direction, taking an animal from the wild, however briefly, exposes it to domestic pathogens during a stressful time. Placing a wild animal in contact with caging or equipment that hasn't been sterilized and/or feeding it food from the pet trade are vector activities that can spread captive pathogens into wild populations. Snake populations are undergoing heavy decline already due to habitat loss, and [rapidly emerging](https://esajournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdfdirect/10.1002/ecs2.3153) pathogens [are being documented](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/ece3.3557) in wild snakes that were introduced by snakes from the pet trade.

If you insist on keeping a wild pet, it is your duty to plan and provide the correct veterinary care, which often is two rounds of a pair of the 'deworming' medications Panacur and Flagyl and injections of supportive antibiotics. This will cost more than enough to offset the cheap price tag on the wild caught animal at the pet store or reptile show and increases chances of survival past about 8 months, but does not offset removing the animal from the wild.